I nearly fainted last year digging up
that site for an apartment in Cheongju.
Why are there so many human bones?
There are rumors that they buried
everything here improperly.
Please help me.
Please let me out!
Help!
Please get me out of here!
I don't want to die!
I don't want to die.
What are you doing?
That's dangerous!
That's enough!
You need to stop…
It'll collapse at this rate.
-That's enough!
-Let go!
Can't you see this?
What about it?
What do you think? It's a person.
There's someone in here.
Over here.
Get over here.
What's going on?
Why are you here?
When did you get here?
Are you really here alone?
Where's your phone?
This is reckless.
Why did you come here alone?
I came here
because I was worried about you.
Whose fault is this…
Darn it.
-Over here!
-We need help here!
-There are people here!
-Over here!
-Patch it up.
-Yes, sir.
You're here.
What happened?
It was fine up until yesterday.
You should be asking if she's okay.
If it hadn't been for her,
we'd be here moving dead bodies, not dirt.
Please excuse me.
S MALL COLLAPSE, CASUALTIES
HA YEON-SU
Please, eat. Let's talk after.
We dodged a bullet thanks to you.
How did you know?
You said
accidents are caused by the things
we let slide despite suspicion.
The ground wasn't firm,
and it suddenly poured,
so I became a bit suspicious.
My shift ended a while ago. Excuse me.
Wait.
I didn't even have time to grab water.
Get me one too.
I don't have any coins.
You're so cheap.
I just don't.
I really don't.
Hey…
What happened yesterday?
You were completely out of your mind.
Why did you dig it up?
I thought I saw a person.
It really looked like one.
Imagine being buried inside.
Wouldn't it be horrifying?
Right, how's your leg?
-I'm fine.
-Fine, my ass.
Let me see.
Come on.
You can't just touch me like that.
Are you leaving? Just like that?
You won't even thank me for the help?
Wasn't it as simple as, "Thank you"?
I understand that it's inconvenient.
But still, please check.
Yes.
-Are you finished?
-Yes.
We covered it up with a tarp,
but it's only a temporary measure.
Thanks for your work through the night.
Go get some rest.
-And the retaining walls--
-This is now my duty.
You should go.
Before you leave,
I need you to write a report.
The engineering report seems fine.
Weird how only one part was destroyed,
no matter how hard it rained.
Right.
Okay. Where should I…
-Is there a form somewhere?
-No, wait.
Do you have to make her do it now?
She stayed up all night
patching up the accident.
We should let her rest.
She has to do this anyway.
I'm not bullying her on purpose.
You're making me look like a jerk.
-No, I…
-Mr. Seo.
I'm totally fine.
It won't do anybody good to put this off.
The accident report.
Hey.
Your family owns a sauna.
Why did you come here to shower?
That's refreshing.
I've been up for a day and a half.
Isn't that awesome?
Then go home and sleep.
Why are you so mean today?
Everyone and their mom criticized me,
so I became full with criticism.
My name will live on for ages
thanks to them.
Give me a can too.
COMMENTS
It's boring, just as I expected.
I already saw it,
so let me help you keep a sane mind.
Take a nap instead.
Read it if you got insomnia.
Read it twice. It'll completely go away.
This webtoonist is way too diligent.
Just rest, then keep it going.
This is the best way to waste time.
I can draw better than her.
You claim to create romance webtoons,
but you've never dated, right?
"Blood Red Behelit"?
This jerk has a pretty cool profile name.
This webtoon shows
how love is completely useless.
Don't waste your web page
on this crappy webtoonist.
Give a chance to others.
The worst of the worst.
Brace yourself for when I meet you.
Or you'll be wheelchair-bound for life.
Darn it, come on!
Mun-su.
I'll catch this jerk
and make him an offering to the God Hand.
-You're my witness.
-What?
The eclipse will finally occur
after 216 years!
-What?
-You're seriously uncultured.
Is it so hard to make a call
and let me know that you had to work?
And why did your phone have to die then?
Didn't you know I'd be worried?
It was pouring,
and I couldn't reach you all night,
so I even called your dad.
Forget it!
My gosh.
Just be glad that you heard from her.
Mun-su isn't a kid.
She'll always be a kid to me.
You don't have one, so you don't know.
What I meant was…
I'm just saying
that there's no use in having kids.
She's so selfish!
It's better for a couple
to live happily without kids, like you.
All right.
Be it kids or husband,
it's better than living alone.
Goodness.
I'm hungry.
Should we make some ramyeon?
Hey.
If it came down, repair it.
What's the problem?
Don't you get it?
We could've had casualties.
Just as you said, we could have,
but nothing happened.
Why do I have to worry
about things that didn't happen?
You should.
Because we've been through this before.
-We know how this can snowball.
-So resolve it quickly.
Our father could pass away any day now.
Let's do a better job
so that the board won't blame us!
Is that your concern? Don't you want
to know why such accidents keep happening?
Was the embedded depth set
according to the blueprint?
I'm sure.
Do you think the field is a joke?
Tell them to check again.
If anything we buried
in the past are uncovered,
construction will be delayed indefinitely.
We should've taken a proper measure--
Hey.
That's why I called you here
to make sure you do it right!
I didn't let a novice like you join this
because I lacked power.
It's because you are
better than that jerk, Seo Ju-won!
Do everything yourself from now on.
Don't trust him.
He butted into our family
in an attempt to take what's ours.
-I won't let it go anymore.
-In that case…
Make sure you do your job right
to keep Ju-won quiet.
S MALL COLLAPSE, SURVIVORS
S MALL COLLAPSE, SURVIVORS, DAY THREE
HA MUN-SU, 15, FEMALE
S MALL COLLAPSE, SURVIVORS, DAY SEVEN
LEE GANG-DU, 15, MALE
LAST SURVIVOR
My gosh, open the windows, will you?
This will kill someone.
For last month's medicine.
Don't give it to the girls
whenever they want.
I said it's good for them,
and they keep chugging it down
instead of trying to quit drinking.
What happened to you?
Mary.
-Does my scar look awful?
-All of a sudden?
I'm just asking.
I was wondering how it looks to women.
Why? Did some witch say something?
-No.
-Stop seeing that girl.
No good woman says
bad things about other people's scars.
-She didn't say anything of the sort.
-Who?
Did that young lady say it's awful?
-Is there a girl?
-I said, no.
I can see that I'm right.
What's going on?
Did you two share your scars?
So there is one?
Since when have you two dated?
How old is she?
They're about the same age.
I don't think she's from here.
Who is she, really?
This is why I can never say anything.
These women are full of questions.
Is this mine?
Hey, pay first.
This is all I got. Put it on my account.
I thought those painkillers were strong.
Can he keep taking it?
Of course not.
At the rate he was going,
his liver would have failed.
He would've poisoned himself
to death already.
I give him just enough
so that he doesn't die.
It looks the same, but it's just vitamins.
You only adore Gang-du, don't you?
I've known you longer.
Don't you know me?
I only eat what I like
and I only adore those I like.
I'm dying to know
how you came to adore him so much.
You never make deals without collateral.
Why did you let that kid borrow
that much money?
100% UNCONDITIONAL LOANS
How much money can you lend me?
-How much do you need?
-A hundred million.
-And your collateral?
-None.
You crazy kid. Go away.
UNCONDITIONAL
It said your loans are unconditional.
Man, this crazy kid. Just go, okay?
Good grief.
Just leave while we're being nice.
Go.
I can't. Not until I get the loan.
Hey, you'll make him cry.
Stop talking nonsense and just let him go.
Can I take the loan if I cry? Then I will.
Fine, if we give you the loan,
how will you pay us back?
I can't.
Not now.
I hurt my leg, so I can't make money.
But…
He said he won't die in debt.
And he kept paying his interest.
That's all?
There's something people always say
when they come to borrow money.
"I'll pay you back."
People who say that
are the ones who never pay you back.
They take the money and use it,
then make a scene when they pay it back
as if they don't owe me.
I was sick and tired
of the moneylending business,
so I thought he might be
the perfect last customer.
Goodness, Mama. You're so weird.
That dying kid
was struggling to save his life again.
Isn't it commendable?
I mean, look at that kid.
He struggled all alone,
but he held on for over ten years now.
Of course, he's commendable.
Hey! What are you doing, man?
You'll break it.
This is considered theft.
It's not.
They owe me.
What are you talking about?
How did…
-I got off-site duty.
-What? Hey.
Are you working off-site again?
Once you get freckles, it's over.
Turn your face.
So-mi, one second.
Why are you here so early…
Mun-su.
Be more assertive.
-If you want him, get him.
-What?
Or he'll be stolen.
-That's not--
-Your chin.
Something is going on.
You said they didn't take
proper measures after the incident.
I hear some of the bodies
found on site weren't intact.
Are some people still buried under?
That's a possibility.
But nothing has been confirmed.
We have no reason to stop working
until we find evidence.
-The risk is too high.
-Reasons? Why is that important?
It is.
We need a reason
if we want to turn the project around.
If it seems unfair,
find the evidence and bring it.
When it's just you, it's just a suspicion.
But if I agree with you,
it would be a reasonable doubt.
Evidence?
Don't change your mind later.
I doubt you came just to see me.
Aren't you working off-site with Ms. Ha?
I can't stand to see her carrying around
her heavy bag.
Do you drive?
Why?
You don't know how to drive?
Buckle up.
No, it's suffocating.
I guess you had some coins today.
CHILD MODEL HA YEON-SU DIES IN S MALL
-Cheongyu is asking that you come in.
-Yes, I understand.
Well, Mr. Jung didn't sound happy.
It'll make our lives difficult
if our client gets mad.
-Please try to work things out.
-Work things out?
Are you asking me
to bend over backwards and fawn over him?
No, well…
Cheongyu is like our family,
so let's be friendly--
Chief.
We aren't in this profession
to make friends.
"We're like family" means
we aren't actually family.
So let's not forget that.
Turn on the blinkers.
I'm not changing lanes right now.
Hey, that was dangerous.
If they cut in, let them go.
If you keep speeding,
you'll crash the car.
-Why?
-You drive.
Yes, I want to. I know I'd be good.
But what can I do?
My leg sometimes acts up.
The state won't let me take the wheel.
Let's go.
Put your leg down.
Don't you know? It's dangerous!
Right.
-What does this say?
-What?
What does this say?
"We remember his service."
That looks like a name.
"We pay
tribute to honor the memories
and share this with the people…"
Why is this so difficult?
It'd be nice if it was easier.
What?
So that ignorant people like me
can read it too.
Who cares if this looks so nice?
If we don't know what it means,
it's a waste.
What's next?
Is this really the place?
Are you sure?
It is.
We have to go straight.
Why is there a memorial
in a place like this?
IN MEMORY OF SONGOLMAE ALPINE CLUB
I guess no one came to visit.
It must've been lonely.
This also isn't it, is it?
No.
You want to restart by exploring
the subsurface? That's insane.
The bedrock should've been seen by now,
but it hasn't been found yet.
Isn't that a hasty judgment?
We can finish excavating first, then--
These two are completely impractical.
Don't live out your dreams at work.
It's our job
to increase sales and cut cost.
That's why I'm sitting here, not you.
I'm not investing in your damn dream,
so do as you're told.
Then we'll go ahead with the initial plan.
However, if any problems arise,
I'll ask Cheongyu
to be responsible as the contractor.
Hey, who says you can go? Hey!
Yu-jin.
You do know I'm your older brother, right?
I wish I didn't. Why do you ask?
Listen up.
Ju-won is an outsider,
a thief who wants to steal what's ours.
You must always take my side from now on.
Do you understand?
Yes, and please help me do that
by doing your job right!
Stop making me lose face!
I envy you.
I envy that you still have face to lose.
My diginity is already in tatters,
so I got nothing more to lose.
No one is on my side.
No one.
-What are you doing?
-Are you scared?
What?
Are you scared you might make
a mistake just like your dad did?
-Yu-jin.
-Then what is it?
Why do you keep enemies all around?
I want to do this right.
Then do you think
we're trying to ruin this?
You won't look like a man of conviction
by being stubborn.
Learn to compromise.
My father changed his mind
and compromised reasonably,
then ended up like that.
You're right. I'm scared.
So please, you're the rational one.
Please take my side.
I can't get over it.
Let's go.
Doesn't it smell similar?
-Sounds good.
-Yes.
-Let us install that.
-Sure.
That's pointless. Change the channel.
Why? I'm enjoying it.
He won't keep it anyway.
-They're doing that just for show.
-You're wrong.
I'm right.
That's only for show.
-Give me the remote.
-I said, you're wrong.
They're not getting any recognition.
Why would anyone waste their time?
Why do you think? Because we're human.
That's what humans should do.
Don't you know that, Gang-du?
-Sang-man.
-Yes?
You should be the older friend.
No.
I like how you're my older friend.
You startled me.
When did you get here?
-Now.
-Why?
Kang Jong-su. Kwak Seo-yeon.
Kim Seong-jin. Nam Dong-sik.
-What?
-Seo Sang-hun. Yang Sun-ja.
Oh Yeong-hwan. Lee Jeong-hui.
S MALL COLLAPSE, BEREAVED FAMILY,
UPDATED MAY 2016
What do you think they were like?
Where did they live? What did they do?
How old were they?
Were they parents? Or someone's children?
The memorial.
I think our starting point was off.
Who are these people?
That should come first.
Let's not do it for appearance's sake.
Let's do what we have to do.
It won't be easy.
It'd be weirder
if something like this was easy.
You're right.
The list of the bereaved?
Are there addresses?
What is it?
You're not ignorant at all.
No one else could have such an idea.
Give it to me.
That thing we must do.
Remembering.
Choi Il-do. Pyo Seong-geun.
Ha Yeon-su.
Twelve years old.
A fifth-grader at Seoyeon Elementary.
My younger sister who wanted
to become an actress.
Then where should we begin?
Mr. Jung!
You should go home. Wake up.
Just a little more.
Go home and sleep.
You should rest comfortably
to be ready for work tomorrow.
But seriously. If my father is rich,
doesn't that mean
I only need to work a little bit?
Then skip work.
Go back to sleep.
I'll keep charging you for this room.
I love how shrewd you are.
Did something bad happen?
I've never seen you this drunk.
Yes, it did.
But my father said…
I should never share my hardships
with other people.
Why not?
If I say my life is tough,
he said 99 people out of 100
will be thrilled.
Why do you care about the 99?
You can do millions of things
with the one person.
I'll be that one person for you.
Really?
If the price is right.
Are you free tomorrow?
REPORTED FOR MALICIOUS COMMENT
NICKNAME: BLOOD RED BEHELIT
Have you read her webtoon?
Just write an apology.
-If you keep resisting--
-Have you seen how shitty it is?
She takes pocket money from kids
and makes up an absurd story.
That means she's a fraud.
So what if I'm a fraud?
What's bad about paying 200 won
and getting a taste of that sweet fantasy?
I get that your life might be shitty,
but do you have to see that in webtoons?
And I'm sorry.
I'm already wheelchair-bound
without your help.
I'm not apologizing, so put it away.
I'll just volunteer for a few hours.
Go report all those comments.
If they all end up volunteering,
your shitty webtoon can be helpful.
Hey!
Ms. Kim, you should go.
We'll take care of him.
This is better than crying.
I'd rather have you criticize me
than those pathetic jerks.
Please teach him a good lesson!
Gang-du, you look so cool.
My gosh,
you're like someone who's in the movies.
Do you know how to put on a tie?
What?
Never mind. We're the same.
Why are you calling so early?
Why do you think?
I never asked you for money.
If you can't pay the interest,
why did you do this
only to make them come here?
You said you'll manage!
Jae-yeong, slow down.
I was completely humiliated
from the morning today.
Please only do as much as you can manage.
-Please.
-No.
That won't happen again.
It slipped my mind and…
Those lunatics.
Gang-du!
Your call cannot be connected.
You'll be redirected to voice mail.
If you aren't going to pick up,
why do you have a phone anyway?
This is Ha Mun-su,
who wanted to meet you today.
I'll wait in front of the bank.
Are you leaving again?
You've been going out too often recently.
I'm not going out. I'm working off-site.
Whatever it may be,
it's good to be outside.
Why is the weather so nice today?
Be careful, Mun-su.
This is a perfect day
for romance to begin.
Mun-su, the weather is so nice.
Look up at the sky.
You're here.
That was a loud hello.
Did I ever forget to pay my interest?
Why couldn't you give me a day?
Yes, a day.
You were a whole day late.
So why didn't you pick up your phone?
Even so, how can you go to Jae-yeong?
Don't ever go there.
If you do, I'll ruin this place!
Then what?
Gang-du, don't be so cheeky.
Don't be so rude
just because that old woman adores you.
Our businesses parted ways ages ago.
And you still owe us.
You two are family.
If you can't pay on time,
we'll have to grab your sister
and make her sell her body!
You jerk!
-You!
-Are you out of your mind?
Don't ever go anywhere near Jae-yeong!
I'll kill you all! Let me go!
Your call cannot be connected.
You'll be redirected to voice mail.
He wanted to do this first.
Come on, Gang-du.
PROPOSAL, MEMORIAL PARK
Is the association
of the bereaved family still in operation?
No, that's not the case.
It's temporary for this project.
It must be tough.
MOKSAN BANK, BUSINESS LOAN TEAM 2
MANAGER LEE IN-YONG
What's wrong?
Your job seems really complicated.
I studied with the compensation I got
after my father passed.
I could say it's thanks to him.
-I can't sign that.
-Sorry?
I do not agree with establishing
the memorial park or the memorial.
-It's out of goodwill--
-After killing all those people?
You have to throw in a green area by law,
so you'll call it a memorial park,
in an attempt to vindicate them.
I don't want that.
I'm sorry.
Did you know what we had to do today?
-I do.
-Yet you show up like this?
Did you fight someone again?
Why are you here alone?
-You didn't meet him?
-Look at you.
The next place is a little far from here.
Let's go.
Mr. Choi Il-do was
the second body to be found.
He was a day laborer
sent there urgently on that day.
Why did it have to be that day?
He lived alone with his mother.
We're almost there.
Hello?
Is anybody home?
Is she not here?
I'll ask her neighbor.
LOANS APPROVED IMMEDIATELY
NO COLLATERAL, LOW INTEREST
What are you doing?
How did you get in?
You can't barge in here like this.
-What if she comes--
-Don't come.
-What's wrong?
-Don't come!
If it hadn't been for you,
she would've been found next month
when the social worker came by.
Her memory's been failing for a few years.
She'd sit here all day
waiting for her son,
up until a few days ago.
What's the name again?
Mr. Choi Il-do?
No.
His mother.
Ms. Im Jin-hae.
Why do you need her name?
The deceased aren't the only victims.
She waited over a decade
for her dead son to come home,
not realizing he's dead.
Can she just be forgotten?
How will they compensate
for the painful lives
of the ones who had to live on?
CHOI EUN-GYEONG: LEE YEON-GI, FATHER
CHOI IL-DO: IM JIN-HAE, MOTHER
She boasted to her neighbors
that she'll move to a village down there
once her son makes money.
If that hadn't happened…
they'd probably be
living together down there, right?
It would've been difficult.
And there's no "probably"
for the things of the past.
I guess so.
I'm sure.
That's for tomorrow.
Chief, I'm actually…
No, I understand.
Sorry?
Hello?
You should go if you're busy.
-What about you?
-I have a night shift.
I'll go home, take a shower,
then take a nap before I go.
I'll give you a ride…
Oh, please.
Pick up.
Yes, I'm on my way.
-I'm sorry.
-Why should you apologize?
Bye, then. I'm leaving.
CHIEF
Sang-man!
Sang-man…
Chief!
Where did he go?
I feel lonely.
Where is everyone?
-Hey, Gang-du.
-Chief.
What's wrong?
You're grossing me out. Get off.
This is great.
A kid the chief brought cut work.
You're the best around here.
You should get changed,
then go for a round.
-Alone?
-Of course.
By myself?
My duties don't include patrolling, right?
Come on, let's get changed.
-Wait, Chief.
-Come on in.
Let me go!
-What?
-Don't touch me!
Hello.
Look over there.
Crows are cackling.
That's amazing.
You're late.
Do you have lots of work?
Yes.
Go to sleep.
Okay.
STAR HAIR SALON
Hey, give me your phone.
-Why?
-Give it to me.
Could we meet at the new shopping mall
in Useok-dong?
Go away.
SEONG-JAE
The same time?
SPACE S MALL, PARTIAL OPENING
Mun-su.
I'm here. Where are you?
I'll be at the ice cream store
on the third floor.
Mun-su.
Why are you up?
Are you crying?
I had a dream.
Was it a nightmare?
No.
Then why are you crying?
Because…
I can only see her in my dreams now.
You're so silly.
Hey, it's not even 1 a.m.
Go back to sleep.
What?
Darn it.
Can't you see me?
You still can't see me?
That thing we must do.
Remembering.
Name, Choi Seong-jae.
Seventeen years old.
If it hadn't been for me…
he would've become a cool grown-up.
My first love.
What's this?
The architect lady
came by to see you, then left it.
Did you finish
that huge pile of ice cream?
Thanks for the ice cream.
She never asks
how I'm doing or sends emojis.
You keep looking at that.
I said, enough is enough!
When I say something,
at least pretend like you're listening.
She has something important today,
so she called in and took the day off.
Maybe she went to hang out with Gang-du?
Since when have you been
so friendly with your colleagues?
Love finds its way to you
when you think everything is over.
Do you not know or are you pretending?
I'm a burden to him, and I feel bad.
So I tell him to go,
but if he leaves, I get disappointed.
You said he's a good guy.
What's the problem?
It's because he's a good guy.
A good guy should be with a good woman.
Subtitle translation by: Eun-sook Yoon